Hi students. In this video,
we're going to be
talking more about
the Linux Command Line
and go over some basic,
common Linux utilities that
you'll be using heavily
in this course.
First of all, why would we
want to use the command line?
So you might say, "Well,
I just installed Ubuntu
and I logged in,
it's got this fancy,
nice graphical UI,
why don't I just use that?"
Well, you definitely can,
and you should absolutely use
the graphical UI especially
if that makes it easy
for you starting out.
However, a lot of the work
that we're going to
do in this course
is going to be talking about
automation and scripting.
How to make things
happen automatically
based on a list of instructions
that we're going to
write into a script.
A lot of that is going to be
interacting with the terminal.
You're going to need to get
comfortable with the
terminal as a part
of completing the assignments
and the coursework
for this course.
Some other reasons to
learn the command line is
because it is the only thing
that every Linux system has.
It's the only common thing
that you'll find across
all Linux systems.
Desktop distributions are going
to be slightly different.
Sometimes in recovery
scenarios, for instance,
you might not even have access
to a desktop environment.
If you think about the
embedded devices that
we're going to work on,
you might not have any kind
of HDMI or video output.
It might be that the only real
way you can interact with
the devices is through a
command-line terminal.
Even if you normally would have
a UI type of environment
to work with,
in Linux, often when
you have a problem,
you might not have the
option to use the UI.
The problem might happen
early in a boot sequence
before you're able to
load a UI, for instance.
Again, command line becomes
the least common denominator
of what's available at
a given point anytime
we're booting the system.
It's often just the
easiest, fastest,
and the most reliable way to
remotely access the system.
There's other ways to set up so
that you can get access
to the full UI remotely.
But it becomes a lot
faster if you get used to
using the command line
to do those tests.
Talking a little bit about some
really common Linux utilities
that are available for I/O.
First one is echo.
This allows us to
do the typical,
Hello World that you start
every assignment with.
If I say echo and then put
Hello World in quotes,
I simply echo the content of
the past back out
to the terminal.
There's another I/O application
that's really popular
and useful as cat.
What cat is short
for concatenate,
which means just print out
whatever file that I specified
out to the terminal.
In this case, if I
have a text file
that's located in my directory
that says ECEN 5013 is awesome.
If I just type cat in
the name of that file,
it'll copy out the contents
of the file to the terminal.
If I want to move back and
forth between
different directories,
there's a command called PWD,
which stands for Print
Working Directory.
This will tell me where I'm at
in the directory hierarchy.
If I'm at a random command line,
I type PWD,
I can see that I'm actually
at home/ecen 5013
in the file system.
Ls is also useful command that
lets you list the
contents of a directory.
If I am in my home
directory and I type Ls,
I can see all the
different, in this case,
the blue list is the
directories that are
created in my home directory,
and this white example
is an example of a file.
To move around between
directories, I can use cd.
Cd plus the directory
name will move
me into that directory
from the terminal,
and then I could use Ls to list
the contents of that
directory, for instance.
Mkdir could make a new directory
based on the name
that you specify.
Some other common directory
in file manipulation,
mv is going to move.
So you can move files or
directories to a new location.
Cp is going to copy.
In the move case,
you're going to
take the file out
of one directory, put
it in another one.
In the copy case you're
going to make a duplicate
of the file from one
location to another.
Rm is going to be removing
either a directory or
a file based on the file
name that you pass.
One other common
utility that you'll
use in this course is touch.
What touch does is just
updates a file's timestamp.
If the file already exists or
if the file doesn't exist,
it's just going to
create an empty file
and update the timestamp
to the current timestamp.
For all of these commands and
every command that you
deal with on the terminal,
there's what are
called the man pages,
that our short for manual pages,
you can use to find
out more details
about how to use a command.
The cp command that we
talked about before,
if you use man cp
to get more information
about that command,
you'll see all the
different options
that you can pass
to the command.
If you read through
the description,
you'll see all the details about
the specific options that
you can provide and
what every option does.
The man program in the
manual references here,
date back to the original
Unix Programmer's Manual
from 1971.
If you look at these numbers
in parentheses here,
these are actual
referencing chapters
of the Unix Programmer's Manual.
In this case, Chapter
1 is talking about cp,
and it's all of the user
commands that you can issue on
the terminal for
Unix-Linux based system.
Cp man is also easy
to search via Google.
A lot of times
rather than going to
the terminal and type
man, whatever I want,
I will just type man plus
the command name
directly into Google.
You'll pull up sites that
have man pages online.
This is a handy way of
referencing those and of
looking those up
using your web term.
Here's an example of use
of the cp command and
looking for more
information to use
the cp command using
the man function.
In this case, I changed
directory into my
electro 2 directory.
Then I make a new directory
called A directory and I
make a sub-directory under
that called A subdir.
Then I'm going to
make a directory
that's going to be the
target of a copy command,
so I make A copy
target directory.
Then I'm going to try to copy
A directory to A copy
target directory,
again using the source-destination
format here for cp.
What I'll notice is if
I run this command,
I get an error message
that comes back that
says -r not specified,
omitting directory A directory.
What it's telling
me here is that
it didn't actually
copy one directory
to my target directory because
I didn't specify the -r option.
If I go back to the screen
I looked at before
where I typed man
cp and a terminal and I pull
up the man page for cp,
one of the things I can look
for is the -r option for cp.
I can see what the
-r option does.
In this case, it's saying
copy directories recursively.
Because I'm trying to
copy A directory and
A subdirectory recursively
into my copy target,
I'm going to need
to specify cp -r
as the error message suggested.
To fix this, I could do cp -r
and reference the copy directory
into the copy target directory.
If I install the tree command
that I mentioned before,
so I can visualize the
directory tree structure.
Once I look under the A
copy target directory,
I'll see my A directory
and A subdirectory.
I can see that that structure
actually matches the structure
that I intended to
copying with cp.